>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So one of the
things that you can depend on in life is
change.
Change will happen everywhere and it will
certainly happen in your applications.
So I wanted to take this opportunity
to change one of the classes,
the EmployeeBenefits class.
Because this is one of those things,
I promised you,
if I saw something that I would not, what
I would use to demonstrate a thing, but
I would not do in real life,
I would call it out.
And I would say, EmployeeBenefits,
besides the fact that I've never worked
in a payroll system very closely,
as a programmer,
I probably wouldn't model this like this.
I could think about a dozen different
ways as an employer to change this,
benefits are incredibly complicated.
So I have a mental model, but
I can tell you right now that for
the purposes of this section of
the course about modification and
about change,
I can say that this thing needs to go.
So we're gonna rip it out entirely.
So, sheesh, is that really necessary?
Well, this is something we discussed
earlier that sometimes abstractions fit
your current needs, and
then one day, they don't.
And we're asked about migrations,
and how do you migrate data?
You migrate data very carefully, and
with lots of people watching, ideally,
to make sure that that data
migration is successful.
So we're gonna go ahead and
create a couple of different classes.
We're going to create a benefit class, and
then we're gonna create an EmployeeBenefit
class to represent the joining
of those two things.
We are going to remove our benefit type
and just have a benefit class entirely.
So I'm gonna close this folder.
I'm gonna open up my next version.
Extending your data model and
model configuration, perfect.
Make sure that my tests are in order,
good, this one does have.
Okay, make sure our tests are good,
make sure our employee API is good.
Okay, so I'm gonna go down
to this EmployeeBenefits.
I'm going to wholesale remove this,
and I am going to go here,
and I am going to destroy
all of that as well.
And I'm gonna paste in our new classes.
It's worth noting that
everything has an Int Id, and
that's because we need a place to track
a unique record inside of a database.
And an integer ID is frequently,
or a long, or a GUID,
is frequently used to do so.
So now we have the idea of a benefit,
could be dental, vision, health.
And then we have an EmployeeBenefit,
which joins those two things together.
It's basically a record that says, this
employee has this benefit, pretty awesome.
So let's see,
let's dotnet build our way out of,
let's get all of our
things figured out here.
We don't have a benefit anymore,
this does not fit anymore.
So actually, I'm just gonna delete it,
and I am going to take that out as well.
And then rebuild the project, like I said,
let the compiler do all the work for me.
I don't need to know where all of it is,
if the compiler is willing to tell me,
I will take it.
So we will take this out because it
is not, well, we'll go ahead and
delete this now in case we
need this class in a second.
Should be good to dotnet build everything.
We got lots of other errors in our SeedData
class, we need to take those out as well.
Boom, boom, boom, all right,
I'm gonna keep asking the compiler,
what is all the good stuff?
We don't have a benefits,
we take that out as well.
We don't have a, let's see,
you get employee response.
Get employee response has benefits,
axe'em, okay.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Dotnet test,
let our compiler guide the way, or
dotnet build.
And, no,
we've just wanna dotnet build for now.
We don't need to run our tests yet,
perfect.
Okay, we've gotten all of our
old benefits out of there.
In practicality, you're probably not gonna
do it like that where you just wholesale,
drop a table, and remove all that stuff.
You're probably gonna refactor in place.
But for the purposes of this
demonstration, that'll be good enough.
So now we're gonna add a migration to
actually remove our old benefits table.
So let's go ls, cd TheEmployeeAPI,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Paste that in.
And one rule about migrations,
you never run them until you look at
them and make sure they make sense.
In this case,
I haven't made any other data changes
that I know of that would cause problems.
This is exactly what I want,
I wanna drop that table.
So I'm gonna say,
dotnet ef database update.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And we're gonna
see that the EmployeeBenefits table
did get indeed dropped,
which is what we expect, awesome.
Okay, now we can add our new
entities to our context,
which is Benefit and EmployeeBenefits.
We're gonna go ahead and do that.
And that looks pretty good, but
we're not quite ready for a migration.
There's one other change that
I want to make, which is,
I wanna focus in on this EmployeeBenefits.
I'm going to pretend for
a second that this EmployeeBenefits
wants to represent one unique record,
for an employee and a benefit.
So an employee with record id 1
should have no more than zero or
one records with benefit id 1.
So I wanna do what's
called add a unique index.
So what I can do is use the Entity
Framework Core configuration tools in
the DbContext to actually
model that relationship.
And that's where the OnModelCreated
method comes in.
So if we go here, and you see OnModelCreating
, we'll just blank that out.
And we will say that we want to
add a specific property to this
EmployeeBenefits class.
So we'll say modelBuilder.Entity.
We'll give it the generic type,
EmployeeBenefit, and
then we will say, .HasIndex.
So the way that you typically create
uniqueness across lots of fields is they
would either be your key, or
you will create an index on them.
And we will create the index like so
where we got our benefit.
So we will say, new, and this is
just object initialization syntax to
instruct EF Core that these are the two
fields we wanna create our index on.
So we've got BenefitId and b.EmployeeId.
And then we say, IsUnique.
Now we should be ready
to run our migration.
Let's see, a little bit more about
model creating, first though,
you can use it to configure indexes,
foreign keys, relationships.
You can use it to alter
the property types of columns.
So for example, in SQL Server,
you can have columns with a maximum
width or even a fixed width.
And you can define those properties,
you can either do it using attributes,
which I have done.
I prefer to use the fluent
OnModelCreating API.
So if you needed to change
the data type for something.
And I'll do this often.
If I have something I wanna store in a
database but I don't want a table for it,
what I'll do is,
I'll just store it as a JSON blob and
then store it as text in a database field.
That's something that I do sometimes.
So let's add our things here,
we'll go ahead and paste that in.
And then we're gonna take
a look at our migrations,
cuz we never look at migrations.
We never run them before we look at them.
We got our new benefits table,
which is exactly what we would expect, and
we've got our new
EmployeeBenefits table as well.
And you'll notice here that there is,
indeed,
EF Core has instructed
the migration that we will,
indeed, create a unique
index on these two columns.
So that way,
there can only be exactly zero or
one record with those employee and
BenefitId fields.
So that's good, it's what we want.
We do need to update our migrate and
seed to add in benefits, so
we will go ahead and do that.
I'm gonna just copy and paste that here,
Cmd+T for find things really fast.
I think I copied this wholesale, perfect.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And then,
we don't have a Benefits class, so
we're gonna go ahead and
go back and add that.
We're gonna go back and
add that to our employee property.
We're gonna see, so I'm gonna say,
Cmd+dot, nope, that's not gonna do it.
I'm gonna go to employee,
and I'm going to say,
public List Benefits .
And we will set it to a new instance
of a list, which will be good.
And let's see, these are EmployeeBenefits,
so we need to put that there, perfect.
Okay, compiler no longer complaining,
that's what we like.
The last thing that we
will do is uncomment out,
you remember our
/benefits endpoint.
We'll go ahead and uncomment that out.
And I'm gonna do that by simply
copying and pasting over here.
Go to my EmployeesController and
paste that in.
And then we did change this record, we
did delete something from it in order for
it to compile.
But we now have a name and a description,
which we're getting from our benefit
record, so
we're gonna go ahead and add that.
We take our EmployeeId, prop string Name,
prop string Description.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: We'll set
these fields as required to be set so
that it doesn't complain.
And we'll switch back here, and
we will see that this works,
which is good, which is what we want.
And then we're gonna uncomment out our
tests and run them and see what happens.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: We
want to see an OK result, and
we are expecting to see two
benefits from this test.
We're expecting to see two
benefits from this API.
And why didn't it run, I need to run
it in the root directory, don't I?
Dotnet test, there we go.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Modifier public,
what is it complaining about?
Wholesale erased the class,
and I didn't mean to,
public class SeedData
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Redefine
that and so
that our compiler is happy with us.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Run dotnet test.
We see that we have one failure,
the collection contained two items,
this is again, what is this?
Is this the same thing
that was happening before?
Custom application factory,
employees returns one result.
Yes, I think we need to change this to Yann and
then rerun our tests to see
that everything passed.
That's what we wanted, perfect.
We don't want two Johns,
we want one, we were creating one.
Okay, good to go.
One a couple of other
notes that I wanna make.
We stopped returning benefits
in the employee mainly for
convenience in this refactor, because it
is already a pretty extensive refactor.
Sometimes you'll keep things like that,
sometimes you won't.
It really is just going to depend
on the case that you're doing.
I do wanna note as well that our call
to get our benefits has a call to,
first, we're getting the employee, and
we are including the benefits
object from the employee.
And then we have this
call called ThenInclude,
which points to the Benefit on our
EmployeeBenefits, which we see right here.
Let's go, Ctrl+T, EmployeesController,
scroll to the bottom, look here.
And we see that this ThenInclude,
is actually operating off of this Include
statement, which is for
our EmployeeBenefit.
And if we navigate it to this property,
you will see that it is, indeed,
our EmployeeBenefit.
So you can use ThenInclude to say,
not only do I want to include employees,
I wanna have my employees record,
and then I wanna get my benefits.
But I also, on top of that,
wanna get the benefit record,
the original benefit record
from that EmployeeBenefit.
And we did this to prevent
null reference exception.
If we run this, if we don't have this in
here, it's not gonna return the benefit
object, and Entity Framework won't
automatically bring it to us, and
we'll get a null reference exception,
and thus a failed test.
Yeah, 500 internal server error.
And it'll be because this
Benefit property wasn't set and
get null reference, it's what happens.
So that is updating the data model.
There is a ton of stuff under the hood
in terms of databases that we simply
cannot cover.
We talked about unique indexes, we talked
about migrations, creating tables,
dropping tables.
I highly recommend you learn about SQL and
take a SQL course of some kind if
you don't know it already because a lot
of this stuff will eventually require
some SQL knowledge in order to be as most
effective with EF Core as you can be.